1994
Q: Would you comment on the use of derivatives? I noticed that Dell computer stock was off 2 1/2 points Friday with the loss of derivatives.

A: Question is about derivatives. We have in this room the author of the best thing you can read on that. There was an article in Fortune about a month ago or so by Carol Loomis on derivatives, and far and away it’s the best article that has been written. We also have some people in the room that do business in derivatives from Salomon. And it’s a very broad subject. It — as we said last year, I think someone asked what might be the big financial story of the ’90s and we said we obviously don’t know, but that if we had to pick a topic that it could well be derivatives because they lend themselves to the use of unusual amounts of leverage and they’re sometimes not completely understood by the people involved. And any time you combine ignorance and borrowed money — (laughter) — you can get some pretty interesting consequences. (Laughter) Particularly when the numbers get vague. And you’ve seen that, of course, recently with the recent Procter and Gamble announcement. Now, I don’t know the details of the P&G derivatives, but I understand, at least from press reports, that what started out as interest rate swaps ended up with P&G writing puts on large quantities of U.S. and, I think, one other country’s bonds. And any time you go from selling soap to writing puts on bonds, you’ve made a big jump. (Laughter) And it — the ability to borrow enormous amounts of money combined with a chance to get either very rich or very poor very quickly, has historically been a recipe for trouble at some point. Derivatives are not going to go away. They serve useful purposes and all that, but I’m just saying that it has that potential. We’ve seen a little bit of that. I can’t think of anything that we’ve done that would — can you think of anything we do that approaches derivatives

1996

Q: And when the price is struck on the Class B shares, those of us who buy our shares through computer programs, do we have assurance that, whoever we buy from, that that will be the price that we pay for these shares?

A: Yeah, the — well, the price — there’ll be a price established, probably, Wednesday night or thereabouts of this week. And everybody will pay the same price. And a very high percentage of that price, incidentally, will come to Berkshire. I mean, there is a very, very low underwriting spread, compared to any other offering. Now, once the initial offering is — everybody will pay the same price: large institutions, the buyer of one share will pay the same price. Subsequently, the stock will, we expect, will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, probably, Thursday morning. As I say — as I said, the — it will be impossible, after the first few days, it would be impossible for the B to sell much above 1/30th of the A, because people would buy the A and sell the B if more than a very small — with even the smallest of arbitrage differentials. But there will be markets in two shares and — in two classes. They will both trade in 10-share lots. That will be the round lot — so-called round lot. Usually the round lot on the New York Stock Exchange is 100 shares. But in the case of both Berkshire shares, the round lot will be ten shares. Now, I read one or two press accounts that said, therefore, the minimum purchase is ten shares. That’s not true. The minimum purchase of each stock — each class of stock — is one share. I mean, you can buy one share or two shares. Or you can sell one share or two shares. And you have an odd lot differential, just as you would if you were working with less than 100 shares of a company whose stock traded in 100 share round lots. But there’s no minimum size in the case of either share.

Q: To your knowledge, will this program effectively discourage the unit trusts?

A: Well, it’s certainly designed to. And I think the answer to that is yes, because I see no way that a unit trust — either in connection with the initial offering or with the subsequent trading — I see no way that the unit trust could offer people as an efficient and inexpensive way of participating in Berkshire as direct purchase of the B.

Q: In terms of the number of shares that you’re going to issue, B shares, do you plan to just look at the book on Wednesday and issue enough to totally satisfy the demand? And do you have any plans to do a secondary if it starts becoming a hot number?

A: Yeah. Well, I think what we plan is to tailor the size of the offering to fit the demand that appears Tuesday night or Wednesday morning, or whenever the exact moment will be on that. But the offering will be designed to do that. Like most offerings, I would anticipate that the underwriter will — and this is a supposition at the moment — but I — it’s frequently done — would sell some more shares than the initial offering with the intention of creating some short position in the security. And, then, they have an option to take — from the company — for 30 days up to 15 percent of whatever we initially sell, which protects them on their short position. But the short position also helps in terms of having an orderly market in the stock, subsequently. But we will, essentially, tailor the size of the issue to the demand as it appears to us midweek. We have no plans for any secondary offering. I think this has been sufficiently publicized. There’s a large network of selling group members. So that people that are interested, but wanted to buy in a smaller denomination, will have had their chance. I think there will be a — well, present indications, there’d be 350,000 shares out. There would be a fairly large — a large — number of holders based on what we’re seeing. So, the market should, starting Thursday morning on the exchange, there should be, in my opinion, a reasonable market based on that kind of quantity and the number of people buying. And so, I anticipate nothing subsequently.

Q: You said you would not advise your friends and family to buy the shares at their current price, what should I tell my family and friends?

A: I think I’ll leave that one up to you. What I said — (laughter) — I said, at present prices, Charlie and I do not think Berkshire stock is undervalued. And that, now that is not what’s gotten reported sometimes. I mean, sometimes people have said we thought it was overvalued. We did not — if you look at the prospectus or if you look at the — if you look at the prospectus, you will see that what we said was we do not think it’s undervalued. Now, I find it somewhat entertaining that people regard that as kind of an amazing statement by somebody making a public offering. But if you think about it a bit, can you imagine a management that goes out and says to the world, “We are selling you something — in a new stock — and it’s way undervalued.” What do you say to your present shareholders if you go out and say to the public, “We’re selling you something that’s worth a dollar, and we’re going to sell it to you for 80 cents?” Now, that would leave me very unhappy. So, I feel that any management that is talking about selling their stock and they say it’s very undervalued, either doesn’t know what’s good for their present shareholders or they may have their tongue in cheek. We would not be selling — we would not sell a part of your interest in Berkshire at a price which we did not feel was adequate for the present shareholders. It’s that simple. If we sell 1 percent of the company, and 350,000 shares is close to that figure of B, we are selling 1 percent of your ownership in See’s Candy. We’re selling 1 percent of your ownership in GEICO. We’re selling 1 percent of your ownership in The Buffalo News. Those are all valuable assets. We have no intention of selling 1 percent, or 10 percent, or the hundred percent of any of those entities at a price that is not fair to present shareholders.

Q: I wondered whether you had any plans for what to do with the money raised from selling the class B shares?

A: Well, the answer to that is in the prospectus, but the — we have no immediate plans for the money. But we’ve faced that situation a number of times. I mean, the money — the inflow of money and outflow of money should not be, in our view, attempted to be matched too carefully in this world, because you get investment and business opportunities at times that differ from the times that funds come in. And one of the most important disciplines in running a business or managing investments is that — is to not get your — not to try to coordinate your actions simply with the availability of cash. Over time, we found a way to use money. It’s much tougher for us to run 17 billion than it was when we had 20 million in the business. There’s no question about that. And we pointed that out many times. And it’ll get tougher still if we get larger, which I hope we do. But the fact that, if 400 million comes in on this offering or whatever, that’s really no different than 400 million coming in in some other manner. And when our float grows, we take in more money. When our earnings are retained, we take in more money. When we have — I forget what the check would’ve been on the Cap Cities transaction, but it was certainly well over a billion dollars that came in on a single day. So, money’s fungible, and we have to keep looking for bigger and bigger things as we go along. And that’s what we do focus on. But it doesn’t bother me to take it. It wouldn’t bother me if we weren’t taking it. It wouldn’t bother me if we took in three times as much. It doesn’t make a lot of difference. And we will have — we — the constant challenge for Charlie and me is to allocate capital is we go along. And it’s a nice challenge. (Laughter)

Q: Have you considered selling more of the class B shares, as you have a lot of popularity and the point of saturation point is likely much higher than how much you're bringing onto the market?

A: Well, my first reaction: maybe I should tell my barber we could save the clippings and sell them. (Laughter) The — I don’t think it’s quite as extreme as you say. But, you know, I — in relation to the 50 million first, we have to authorize enough shares, because we are going to allow every share of class A — or present common stock — but the class A, to convert to B. So we have to have the shares authorized to take care of 30 times the present one point almost two million shares. So, 36 million shares, in effect, are reserved for the present common stock. And, as long as we were authorizing it — Well, we need that much, or we wouldn’t have the shares actually available if everybody came around to convert. That’s not going to happen. But we still have to be prepared for it. We have no plans to issue a lot of shares. The — but the point you mention, which I think you stressed a little more than I would’ve, but the — that is what we were worried about, in terms of the unit trusts. There are people that think that it can all happen again from this kind of a base which, you know, is mathematically a joke. And Charlie and I would settle for one whole lot less, you know, right today. And we have done everything we can — I mean, if we hadn’t done this, the unit trusts would’ve moved forward. And I think they would’ve cashed in on that phenomenon you suggested. And in a few years, you know, it would not — I would’ve been in a somewhat different position because people can get very disillusioned if they have hopes that aren’t realized.

Q: Can we buy the class B shares directly from the company?

A: The answer to that is no. But Salomon Brothers is the underwriter of the issue. They have a hundred and, I think, 37-or-something broker-dealers, all — virtually all — the major ones in the country, in the selling group. The cost to the company of doing this are really very, very low compared to any issue I’ve seen. When AT&T had their spinoff — or sale of Lucent — which was close to a $3 billion deal — you know, their percentage costs were more than double what our costs will be, for example, on this offering of Berkshire. So, it’s almost as if you’re buying it — a Class B holder — is buying it from us, in terms of the, what I would call the frictional costs involved of getting the issue done. In fact, if we handled it ourselves, it might cost more. But the company, itself, is not a broker-dealer. And it’s — it would require a whole group of different hoops to jump through in order to have a direct issue. It will be sold only through broker-dealers.

Q: There are thousands of teachers and hospital employees whose future retirement money is in 403(b) plans that are limited to investing in mutual funds only. And so, I wonder if, first of all, if you were aware of that? And if so, if you considered that? And if not, if you might?

A: Well, the answer is I wasn’t aware of that. So it wasn’t considered. There are, of course, some mutual funds that own Berkshire shares. But there’s no all-Berkshire fund, outstanding. I would say this: that if the law was set up to, in some way, to restrict investments of this group you’re talking about to options that involve mutual funds but that don’t involve individual stocks, I would think it might even be regarded as a way around it, if a fund owned nothing but one stock. Because, if you can’t buy General Motors directly under, I assume, the relevant rules or statutes on that, it would seem that a fund that owned nothing but General Motors might be regarded as a way of getting around that. But the answer is that it was not considered. I don’t know where the rules are derived, whether there — whether they can be changed by some organization or they’re part of some statute.

Q: As you receive the proceeds of the Class B sale and generate other cash, are you seeing opportunities out in the marketplace to continue to provide the kinds of returns that we’ve been fortunate enough to experience in the past?

A: With or without the sale of the B, we don’t see things to do that can maintain anything close to the average returns of the past. We’ve tried to convey that. And it becomes a mathematical absurdity. Money just won’t compound at that rate in this world, absent extraordinary inflation. It certainly won’t compound in real terms. So, absent the issue of the B, we are not looking at them. We’re not seeing things. We’re not hoping to find things that match some of the things that we have found in the past, relative to the capital base we’ve had in the past. But we have that problem with or without the B. And it has not changed in any, even very minor degree, by the issuance of the B. We are looking for things all of the time. Anytime we find anything that makes sense to us, we will do it. The harder part is to make sure that we don’t do something when we don’t find something that makes sense. I mean, that’s the bigger worry. And when we find them, you know, they’ll come along. And you never have — you never know when it’s going to happen. We run into businesses — I described a little bit of that in the annual report — almost by accident that we’ve had — contracted to make one purchase this year. The people who run it are here today. And it came about because I was attending a birthday party. And, you know, I’ll go to more in the future. (Laughter) So, things have not ended around here. We’ll find interesting things to do over time. But they can’t remotely be as profitable as the things we’ve found in the past, simply because of the large capital base.

Q: Do you foresee a large spike in volume in the coming days, after the class B shares are floated?

A:Well, I — we’ve considered what you’re talking about. I think that the issue has been well enough publicized that the demand will largely be reflected on the books of the underwriter in a day or two. And I see no reason at all for a spike in the stock. I mean, the way we’ve designed it should really prevent that. We — and we tell people not to expect it. If any institution wants to buy it, if any individual wants to buy it, they’re going to have a chance to do it. And I don’t see any reason why there should be some huge influx of people immediately subsequent to the offering that didn’t hear about it during the offering period.It’s interesting. I think most of the demand will be retail and smaller holdings, not so much institutional. The — most new offerings are done in a manner where the idea is to have far more demand than supply, and therefore cause people to, maybe, order stock they didn’t even want, and just on the idea that this restricted supply will cause a big jump the first day, whether, you know — you’ve seen Yahoo or a number of other offerings. I think — I don’t personally like that sort of distribution arrangement because you’ll find that 30 to 40 percent of the issue will, perhaps, trade the first day. Well, I think — and, perhaps, at a lot higher price. I think there’s something a little wrong with that kind of an offering, because the company obviously isn’t getting the proceeds that are equivalent to what people are willing to pay. And favored customers get the chance to flip the stock and really are getting paid an exorbitant underwriting fee themselves, even though they’re called purchasers, because they sell it the first day. We will be very interested in seeing the volume in the B stock the first couple of days, relative to the amount of the issuance. And I will be disappointed and I’ll be surprised if the trading volume in the B stock the first couple days, related to whatever the size of the issue is, turns out to be anywhere near as high as with most new issues. I think that we will have a better success in finding people who really want to own it and who did not buy it to flip it, I think, by this method of distribution. But we’ll have a test of that. We will see what happens in trading volume. And I invite you to look at the volume and compare it to the amount we issue and, then, look at that relative to other new issues this year and just see how successful we were in finding real investors rather than people who were buying it to sell it to somebody else the next day.

Q: Regarding the conversion privilege, is there a time limit on the converting from the A to a B?

A: The first five days or so after issuance — business days — there’s no conversion. But after that, you’ll be able to convert until judgment day. It’s forever convertible from A to B. But it’s not convertible from B to A. So there’s no need to convert it until you have a reason to do so. It — and as I’ve pointed out, there’s a very slight disadvantage in converting. And I wouldn’t — until I had a need, I would not convert it.

Q: How does one convert A shares into B?

A: Yeah. That — yeah, there are instructions on that in the proxy statement as to how that — I guess it’s in the annual report, too, that it describes how to do it. But, basically, you get in touch with the Bank of Boston to do that and proceed from there. Or if you have your shares with a broker, you would instruct your broker to do it.

Q: I wondered, how did you decide that the ratio of the Bs should be 30-to-1 instead of 300-to-1 or something in between?

A: Yeah. We wanted to have something that was roughly — would trade, initially, at least, in the thousand-dollar range. We thought it very unlikely that anyone would find it commercially feasible to set up a trust that offered units that were denominated much below that. So, that’s as low as we felt we had to go. And we did not want to signal, in any way, that, you know, some sort of last chance, or something like that, to get in for some very low sum for people that, you know, just had some wishes that they could turn a hundred dollars into 100,000 or something. I get letters from people that, you know, think that somehow that can be done. It can’t be done. And we don’t want to appeal subliminally or any other way to people who harbor those hopes. I’m sympathetic with them. But we don’t have the answer to that. So, we went down to the level to match the unit trusts.

Q: 
